## The World Crime League
_"Don't tell me that you're innocent. Because it insults my intelligence and it makes me very angry."_

**Probably Established:** 13th century CE, Dai Viet.

With the encroachment of the Mongols into South and Southeast Asia, the kingdoms remaining outside the Khan's grasp were cut off from trade with the outside world. The supernatural creatures of the region were forced to make their own way, without influence from the old power structures. A pirate navy formed in Southeast Asia, which preyed upon naval traffic and helped fight the Mongol Empire alongside the mortal forces of Emperor Trần Nhân Tông. Keeping themselves on a military, outlaw footing kept the Mongols out of their lands and waters for as long as the Ming dynasty stood, but by the time they had reestablished connections with other Syndicates, the Viet Shadow Kingdom had power of its own and its membership had no real desire to rejoin the Makhzen. They instead took their criminal activities world wide and became the League of Pirates, and eventually the World Crime League.

Because of their piratical roots, the World Crime League has a vaguely naval structure at the top. There is a council of Captains who discuss world issues and update the guidelines. Locally, WCL members infiltrate whatever criminal groups happen to be active in the region and modify themselves appropriately. WCL members have risen to high ranks in Triads, Vory, Mafia, and Ghost Cartels. 

The WCL values money and other trappings of human temporal power as well as mystical power, and one can literally purchase their way up in the ranks of the Syndicate. The group holds that breaking the laws of man and corrupting the values of human society is a goal in and of itself, and undermining the rule of law and morality is seen as a powerful and respectable achievement by the League.

### Power and Office in the World Crime League
_Honestly, it's more like a set of guidelines..._

The World Crime League officially rewards and expects ambition from its members, but it also requires success (or at least the appearance of success) from its leadership. A title is bestowed for a minimum amount of time, after which _anyone_ can challenge them for the post, with most challenges being settled by election (though some being up for other demonstrations of fitness, including trial by combat in some instances). If someone fails to unseat an office holder, they may not challenge for a seat for an amount of time equal to the amount of time the office would have been guaranteed. This system is an amalgamation of the Chinese Imperial Examination system and the pirate government that it grew out of.

* **Captain:** Each territory has two separate leaders. The Captain or Thuyền Trưởng is in charge of the military of the territory and also justice within its borders. Holding the Captaincy makes one the "stick" in all incentivisation. Perversely, this makes the Captain usually rather well-liked, as physical punishment is rarely used and the WCL is not often at war with anything or anyone.
* **Quartermaster:** The Quartermaster or Giám Lộ Trưởng rewards members of the organization for their activities and distributes resources. They provide the "carrot" of incentives for the WCL. Quartermasters are almost universally hated and feared, because every member of the WCL gets some portion of the resource distributions and feels that they personally don't get enough.
* **Councilor:** Each territory can send one member to negotiate on their behalf when councils are called. Traditionally, the Captain would go to a council of war (called a Bình Thân) and the Quartermaster would go to a council of administration (called a Diên Hồng). In more recent nights, with councils becoming almost a continuous affair over one thing or another, it has become standard to have other members take the mantle of Councilor. There is talk of making the Councilor a permanent capacity, and some territories that are very far from Malaysia have already done so. The Councilor of San Francisco basically lives in Singapore and is always on hand to argue San Francisco's position the moment a council is called. The success of this program has prompted imitators.
* **Minister:** Anyone put in charge of anything is technically a "Minister" (Bộ Trưởng) of something or other. Broadly speaking, there are five _kinds_ of Ministers, who each get a different insignia. The categories (and their insignia) are Military (Peacock), Law (Elephant), Wealth (Cat), Territory (Water Buffalo), and Sorcery (Swastika). Fitting modern concerns into these five categories is sometimes rather a stretch, and there are instances where essentially identical roles are given different insignia even within a single city's organization.
* **Military Minister:** Originally given to military officers, the peacock is now given to those who help enforce adherence to The Code and those who work on keeping knowledge and weaponry on hand to battle "rogue elements" such as Demons and Pods. So for example, the San Francisco Territory has a Minister of Comparative Biology whose job it is to keep samples and conflict testimonials to aid in investigations of potential invasions from other worlds. And while he does not carry a weapon of any kind, his insignia is a peacock.
* **Law Minister:** The World Crime League has crime _in its name_, and takes this sort of thing very seriously. Law Ministers in the WCL are mostly concerned with _bypassing_ the laws of human society rather than enforcing the code of the WCL (that's a job for the military). So for example, in the Territory of Kabul they have several Ministers of various opium schemes, and they all get the elephant because their proximal job is to keep WCL members from getting destroyed or captured by mortal governments or tribes.
* **Wealth Ministers:** The World Crime League has quite substantial taxation, substantially more so than the Covenant's 10% Tithe. The cat emblem goes on any Minister who manages collection or distribution of the WCL's considerable financial resources. Wealth Ministers of one type or another are the ones who actually underwrite new ministries when they are created. The Quartermaster of a Territory directly commands any Wealth Minister that operates in their jurisdiction.
* **Territory Minister:** Originally they were ministers of "agriculture and geography" and their job was to manage the food sources (including the more... _special_ food sources) of members as well as making sure that things weren't falling apart in the villages and keep maps of the world for the Syndicate. Tonight you can get maps on Wikipedia and most food shows up in grocery stores without Witches having to do anything. So the Territory Ministers have gradually become news gatherers and event watchers. These nights, the water buffalo is virtually synonymous with "spy" and many Ministers keep their insignia hidden from everyone but the Quartermaster and possibly the Captain.
* **Sorcery Ministers:** Purely magical concerns, such as a portal network or prophecy sets have Sorcery Ministers appointed to govern them. It is important to note that in most places the WCL is strong, the swastika is not considered a problematic symbol, and in any case it's supposed to be hidden from mortals. So really, the WCL hasn't had a problem with it.
* **Lieutenant:** the World Crime League really recognizes two types of Lieutenants. The first is someone that acts as a subaltern for a Minister, and the other is anyone that runs their own crew of Hands and Associates. Often a given Lieutenant is in fact running their own crew in part to carry out Ministerial duties and in part for their own profit. The respect granted is roughly determined by income in either case. The original formal name for Lieutenant is "Trung Úy", but a local dialect term is preferred.. 
* **Hand:** An ordinary League member is properly referred to as a "Hand" in English or "Công Nhân" (roughly meaning "worker") in Vietnamese, although whatever term is common in the local dialect for the bottom rung of organized crime is actually more common. Hands are expected to deliver 20% of the proceeds of their crimes (which in League parlance means pretty much all income) but also receive a cut from the Quartermaster.
* **Associate:** As in many criminal organizations there is a broad category of people that are not really members or "made men" but are nonetheless critical for its functioning. The League cultivates these Associates carefully and they are considered to roughly be the property and responsibility of whatever Hand or Lieutenant runs them. Luminary monsters spend a shaking out period as an Associate before being made a Hand while Spawn normally remain Associates for life.

#### League Status

1. Associate: Associate
2. Member: Hand
3. Established: Lieutenant or Minor Minister
4. Powerful: Major Minister or Councilor
5. Local Leader: Captain or Quartermaster
6. Senior Leader: Senior Captain or Quartermaster

The sixth level of Status in the World Crime League is a little different than the other syndicates in that their senior leadership is exactly the same as their local leadership. In fact with all Syndicates the size of the domain matters a great deal in terms of the influence that local leadership has in the overall organization, but in the World Crime League this is particularly obvious.