# Monstrous Society

## Organization of the Damned
_"There's evil stuff going on in here. And I want in."_

Supernatural creatures are in the big scheme of things rather rare. An individual Werewolf may go their entire life without ever encountering another supernatural creature (beyond of course the Werewolf that mauled them into their current state in the first place). So it's not surprising that when they do find each other they tend to make exclusive clubs. These social organizations are in many ways templated on the human social organizations that the creatures that created them lived in when they mingled in human society. And with the sheer age that some creatures possess, it is perhaps unsurprising that many of these organizations are in fact crazy old-fashioned.

On the other hand, a lot of them aren't really as old as their history might indicate. Sure, the Makhzen has continuity in some form back to the Babylon of the Late Bronze Age, but the largest city in the world at the time had around 100,000 human inhabitants. Even given a rough doubling for centralization, the standard supernatural population estimate for Babylon in 800 BCE would only be **20** monsters. 20 people does not a society make; that's an extended family or small clan. Literally everyone in the founding Makhzen court of Babylon knew each other quite intimately. Across the whole Median Empire there were less than 1,000 supernaturals, which is seriously few enough that they could all recognize one another.

Really complex societies - the size of an ancient city state - weren't possible among monster's until the population explosion of the Industrial Age. A billion humans means room for 100,000 monsters hidden among them, and that took more than two millennia from the founding of the Makhzen. The permanent revolution of the Cauchemar Communes spread in one way or another through all the Syndicates as they tried to grapple with the sudden explosion of both the human population and the new generations of monsters that were born of them. 

Since then the world's population has gone from just under a billion to nearly 8,000,000,000. Roughly a million new monsters were created in those two centuries, and barely any of them have become Elders in anything resembling natural growth over time. Less than 1-in-10 make it through their first century, although the die-off slows after that time, as opposed to the rapidly increasing likelihood of death that comes with mortal aging. In the modern nights of the 21st Century Elders are a small few percent of the population even in the oldest domains.

### Status and Membership

Cults and Syndicates vary a great deal in the variety and formality of their internal hierarchies, but ultimately they all operate on a principles that some people are in and some people are out and that getting deeper into the inside means playing a game of awarding mutual respect to the other insiders. So even though there are at least 31 ranks in the Daziban and the Communes is nominally non-hierarchical a general idea of relative Status can be translated across them:

1. **Associate:** A rank indicating someone that is associated with a group but not a full member. Syndicates often, but not necessarily, have statuses that differentiate between those that are candidates for full membership and those that have no hope of advancement.
2. **Member:** The rank of a full member or citizen in a Syndicate or acceptance in a Cult, with all duties and obligations that entails.
3. **Established:** Minor offices or recognitions in a Syndicate or Cult that have some authority granted by the organization.
4. **Powerful:** Local movers and shakers or diplomatic agents.
5. **Local Leader:** The most powerful ranks of the organization within a domain. A Cult usually has a single local leader at most, while Syndicates generally have at least a small oligarchy in a major city.
6. **Senior Leader:** The global leadership of an international organization. Each Syndicate has no more than a few dozen members at most at this level, and even a powerful Cult no more than a handful.

In practice there is a major difference in the independence and respect of the local leadership depending on the size of the domain. The Archbishop of Ciudad de Mexico rivals the Anti-Pope in power, but a Bishop that runs a city of less than 50 flock is barely getting the respect due to a Palatine, although they would be likely to have a lot of independence to do what they want within their domain.

### The Rumor Mill
_"I love rumors! Facts can be so misleading, but rumors, true or false, are often revealing."_

Supernatural society doesn't have news broadcasts, newspapers, or newsletters. At best, you can show up to the Court of the Prince, Bishop, or Captain, or the meeting of the Committee of Public Safety to listen to the minutes and announcements, but you'll be hearing what they want you to hear. To the extent that records are kept, they are eyes-only documents, because it's imperative that mortals don't get their hands on them and/or that the monsters don't find out what you're doing. So if you want to know what's going on with your fellow hunters or predators-upon-humanity you're generally going to have to actually _talk_ to someone.

And that means that monsters and hunters get their news from a global gossip network that traffics in rumor. There is little fact-checking when the MiGo tells you the dish from the dream their friend in Budapest sent them last night. And for all you know their friend might have been paid off by a Galatean to improve their reputation or destroy that of the Camazotz that their girlfriend is making eyes at. While the Syndicates tend to have agents monitoring mortal information sources, you can see how it's a bit of a miracle for them to have any idea what their own society is up to.

Getting the supernatural news is much like finding out unofficial information in the mortal world with Friendly Banter, Subterfuge, Testing the Waters, or a Social Interaction Montage, but you generally lean on Occult Backgrounds because everything is officially secret. In the best case you're already friends with someone that will happily infodump all the latest just for the pleasure of it (a valuable Contact), but likely you're going to need to do some work to stay on friendly terms with your sources, and the more status you have the more likely that you're going to be making payouts in a patron-client relationship with your informers.

### Syndicate Law

Supernatural law differs little in basic intention from its mortal counterpart. Essentially it is there to keep society and those within it safe and to perpetuate itself as a social organization. Where the Syndicates differ from most modern concepts of legal systems is that they are actually just there to preserve a very small clique. The World Crime League isn't particularly concerned with whether Thailand continues to exist, or even how many people die in Kuala Lumpur (their capital). All they care about is preserving the organization of the World Crime League and their own membership - which is only about 150,000 _world wide_. Which means that the World Crime League seriously does not have rules against many of the traditionally thought of "natural" crimes. They don't care if you steal, or rape, or murder, so long as it happens to _other people_. They only care if you endanger the apple cart. It's exactly the kind of system you'd think would be invented by pragmatic, immortal, man-eating _monsters_. Which of course it was. Punishments for breaking these rules tend to escalate quickly from warnings to banishment, torture, and execution. Syndicates are slow to adopt changes in human norms of government and jurisprudence was extremely harsh by modern standards even just a few centuries ago. 

So what is it that the bogeyman fears? What things could you do that would threaten the existence of supernatural society? Well, _lots_.

#### The Vow of Silence 

Back in the "old nights" the "Tradition of Misdirection" was simply a set of informal rules that you couldn't tell normal people what worked and what didn't work as regards fighting supernatural creatures. Because even the ancient vampires understood that they would have a hard time fighting a hundred mortal humans with wooden spears in the daylight. Back then it was perfectly acceptable to openly be a Vampire Queen or whatever, but spoiling the mystery of how vampires worked to the peasantry was considered an attack on every single other vampire, and would be met with reprisals and concerted disinformation campaigns to reconfuse the issue.

The Vow of Silence has generally replaced the Tradition of Misdirection over the centuries. Hiding the weaknesses of monsters has become a bigger and bigger deal in most parts of the world as human populations and human technology have expanded so much in the last two centuries. These nights, giving away to the "general public" that vampires are real _at all_ is generally considered to be as bad as telling people the specific types and weaknesses of vampires was in ages past. The 18th and especially 19th centuries were marked by some awe inspiring blood baths of supernatural creatures at human hands - the Wolf Khans are apparently _all dead_. And the reaction of most Syndicates has been to hide more than just their specific Achilles Heels, and in modern nights the general assumption is that human scientists could figure out the weaknesses of Werewolves or Strigoi quite rapidly if they ever started investigating the matter. So if someone were to leave strong evidence of the supernatural, most Syndicate responses are going to be to discredit that evidence (by destroying it, making it look faked, suppressing it in the news, or whatever), and to punish those involved to the point that it encourages others to not do that kind of thing in the future. And yes, if a Makhzen Prince has to do a lot of work to suppress some Vow of Silence Breech, they are well within their rights to have the perpetrator killed.

But not everyone sees it that way. The Shattered Empire and the Covenant Domain of Ciudad de Mexico hold that the "good old nights" where a Witch could have their own Witch Tower and have a fearful populace pay tribute to them and come groveling to them when they wanted some magic done can be achieved again in the here and now. These groups hold to the old ways of Misdirection where freaking the mundanes is acceptable and even in cases _encouraged_, but this does not mean that the wearing of masks is not practiced - just that the masks worn are those of prophets, gods, and demons rather than masks of mortal men. Needless to say, this is quite a sticking point between Syndicates and domains - with the proponents of the "new" Silence claiming that the proponents of the "old" Misdirection are inviting the downfall of everyone by opening themselves up to scientific inquiry, while the proponents of the "old" Misdirection counter back that the "new" Silence endangers everyone because the big secret can't be kept forever and in the absence of a body of misinformation the truth will become weaponized in mortal hands.

> #### The Posthuman Agenda
>
> Once in a while someone reinvents the idea that we should make everyone into powerful immortals because death is bad. While this is an admirable sentiment, in the realm of horror that is After Sundown the problem is that 99.99% of people would either die or go absolutely crazy if you tried to expose them to the glorious radioactive hellfire that makes someone a Fallen. Being a Luminary monster might be a great deal for some people, but it just isn't an option for most. So it's actually somewhat heroic for players to stop a mad scientist from violating the rules of their horrific societies by trying to mass-produce immortality serum.
>
> The Extra/Luminary divide is an unrealistic and deeply unfair aspect of After Sundown's game world that makes a good fictional setting for modern horror. Of course, if you _want_ to play in a post-human galaxy of horror movie monsters, we'd love to hear how it goes.

#### The Peace

Wild West style combat and intimidation doesn't really work to keep society together - it drives people away and it drives supernatural creatures away too. And while there have been Syndicates in the past based on the "might makes right" principle where the strongest were allowed to eat the smaller at any time, those Syndicates are simply not _around_ any more. The fact is that for any Syndicate to hold together it has to offer a better shot at surviving to the end of one's immortality than simply hiding under a rock in the wilderness. Otherwise, even moderately rational supernatural creatures are just going to run for the hills. And so it is that Syndicates find themselves charged with protecting their members - and quite often protecting their members from _other members_. This means firstly that murdering other members is highly discouraged, but it also means that every Syndicate has a forum for handling grievances such that creatures will feel properly (or at least minimally) satisfied without chopping anyone's head of.

It's also important to note that Syndicates are not noble altruistic organizations that aim at "might for right" principle like some shadowy Knights of the Round Table. At their best the Syndicates operate on a cynical "right makes might" principle, in that being on the correct side of the rules (as opposed to just being on the side of the people that enforce them...) means that you'll be backed up by the power of the group in a conflict. Rules in any Syndicate tend to be both draconian and laissez-faire, since they are designed by and to appeal to literal monsters from before anyone had written [A Theory of Justice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Theory_of_Justice). But it is important to remember that even these rules are not as kill crazy as unfettered mob justice. 

#### Respect 

Being a member of a Syndicate isn't just a list of "Thou Shalt Nots". It's also a set of perks. First of all, it lets you hang out with creatures that are actually in your peer group, which is _awesome_, but membership also straight up has _privileges_. Members of the World Crime League receive shares of criminal proceeds, can call upon the organization to give them legal counsel, and get access to the secret swimming pool where you can let it all hang out, even if "it" is a set of gills.

But perhaps the biggest perk that any Syndicate can offer is the respect and obedience of other members of the Syndicate. And that in turn becomes one of the most important concessions that one makes by joining a Syndicate. The Makhzen promises its members that if they work their way up to Prince of a domain that they'll be able to make the rules for that domain, and that other members of the Makhzen _will follow those rules_. And thus, every member of the Syndicate is expected actually honor the perks that other members have earned within the Syndicate. You have to act like everyone else has their carrots for you to receive yours. Telling the Quartermaster of a World Crime League territory to go fuck themselves can get your pool privileges revoked - or even get you booted from the Syndicate's protection altogether.

The other critical aspect of respect is a degree of protection for the things you care about (besides your life; that's covered under peace). While the Syndicates might seize things for back taxes or in time of war, you can generally see to it that your friends and family are off limits. The Syndicate probably won't take threats or harm to them as seriously as it would to you, but it makes a big difference when the ghouls promise not to eat them in particular. The unfortunate side is that most Syndicates only recognize other people, at best, as the property of monsters. The Makhzen doesn't really care about your sister; they care that one of the Kin _owns_ her, and you'll have to assert that if you want her to be protected.

#### Outsiders

Syndicate law doesn't just recognize the rules of peace and respect, but has a formal recognition that some people are _outside_ of the law and the rules _do not_ apply to them. All of the existing Syndicates have formal treaties with each other recognizing that each other's citizens deserve at least a modicum of freedom from violence in the name of not having an all-out war between Syndicates, if only because such a war would endanger the Vow of Silence and thus get everyone killed.

And that's the one rule you aren't allowed to break as an outsider. So long as the Marduk Society, Shattered Empire, and King with Three Shadows stay under the mortal radar the Syndicates keep any wars with them cold, and so peace reigns to a degree. You can oppose them openly, but there are rules of engagement under which you are not supposed to start shooting them unless they attack you first, and the diplomats will still scowl at you over it when they find out.

But if anyone starts going loud about the supernatural they generally get one chance at most to join up and shut up. All four modern Syndicates recognize a state of outlawry and are quite happy to assign it to any violators of the Vow of Silence, in many cases well after they are already dead. Not only are outlaws not subject to the protection of their laws, those laws usually forbid associating with them or giving them aid. Killing and eating someone that broke the Vow of Silence isn't just permitted, it's _praiseworthy_, so long as you keep it quiet.
