## The Makhzen
_"Lack of loyalty is one of the major causes of failure in every walk of life."_

**Probably Established:** 8th century BCE, Persia

The Makhzen is, according to its own history, an ancient truce declared between various supernatural creatures long ago in Babylon. It was apparently put together in the face of some grave threat which is no longer talked about. Members of the Makhzen are called "Kindred", and the regional leadership is divided into "cities", "domains", and "kingdoms" all of which terms are used interchangeably. Regional leadership is held by a Mehtar Council, which powerful kindred are appointed to for life, and this council is led by a Prince or Aval (both are unisex terms which predate their use in royalty). How much influence the prince actually has varies from region to region. A Mehtar or prince who travels to another domain is automatically a member of the Mehtar council wherever they happen to be.

Laws of the Makhzen are hopelessly baroque, and most of the old ones are shockingly specific and draconian and inscribed into clay tablets. They have by and large been repealed and replaced with ones which are easier for everyone to get along with. Still, there are some hangers on, as it is widely reported that it is still technically a death sentence for the perpetrator and their three closest friends to steal an aurochs from a member of the kindred.

Tonight, the Makhzen remains strong in the Middle East and North Africa. It has spread somewhat into North America in the American South. Once it extended the entire length of the Silk Road and all through Southern Europe, but both of these areas have broken off over the centuries. If you go West or North from Bulgaria you get into Covenant territory. And if you go North or East from Tajikistan and Uzbekistan you get into Communes territory. The Makhzen is bordered on its southern reaches in the old world by World Crime League territory. It is a noticeable source of contention that from the Makhzen's founding lands in Persia you can literally see Afghans who work (albeit unknowingly) for the WCL.

### Power and Office in the Makhzen
_No one wants it to be easy to depose a king. Then there would be no luster left in **becoming** king._

Nominally of course, the Makhzen appoints all possible positions and titles to members from above. Even the Inner Circle members are appointed by the Inner Circle. In practice, it is entirely possible to rise on one's own merits and decisions in a myriad of ways. The most obvious is that if you go set up a Makhzen kingdom somewhere, you are the Prince. And it is pretty difficult to get rid of a sitting Prince. Similarly, a character can appoint themselves for pretty much any need for which there is a void. Like in any system of government, the first rule is that you have to want to do it.

* **The Inner Circle:** The Makhzen is led by a shadowy cabal that meets several times a year. There are supposedly seven members, and their edicts are the Law. In practice they are severely limited by the fact that they have very little ability to enforce their edicts, given that almost all real power in the Makhzen exists at the level of an individual city, but their word does carry considerable respect in most domains, if only for lip service.
* **Hakim** Each of the Inner Circle members is allowed one _Hakim_, a roving one-person supreme court who dispenses justice and interprets the laws of the Makhzen. The Hakim serves as long as their nominating Inner Circle member allows. Their authority is theoretically unlimited but in practice they need to behave quite diplomatically towards local Princes and Councils.
* **Manadi:** The original purpose of the Manadi was to carry mail, bells (yes, really), edicts, and diplomacy from one city in the Makhzen to another. Tonight, with the advent of airplanes and email, there is a lot less need for these sorts of activities and there are many less Manadi than there once were. But they retain their function as bearers of the will of the Makhzen, and they are now roaming courts - like a Hakim-lite and serve a critical role as intercity diplomats.
* **Prince:** The leader of a Makhzen city is the Prince. All appointments in the city are done by the Prince, though in many cities the Mehtar Council wields such power that their "recommendations" are essentially rubber-stamped by the Prince. The title varies a bit in actual usage with older domains favoring "Aval" or "Princeps" and newer domains "Chairman" (the Makhzen tend to have an outdated approach to gender-inclusive language).
* **Mehtar:** Anyone who achieves sufficient gravitas within the Makhzen is afforded the honorary title of Mehtar, which they hold in perpetuity (although it is left unacknowledged while they have any other title - no one would bother citing the fact that a Hakim is also a Mehtar). Whenever a city's Council meetings are called, any Mehtar who wants to can show up. Even Mehtar who don't live in the city. In some cities the Mehtar council, or even specific Mehtar, have more real authority than the Prince. In others, the Council's statements are just advisory and the Prince's word is final.
* **Vizier:** Some Princes or Councils take a tremendously hands-on approach to government, and others don't. Some cities employ one or more Viziers, whose job it is to do administrative work that the higher ups can't or don't want to do. In Dubai there are many Viziers, and they are often empowered to administer the many mundane business operations that the Makhzen controls. On the flip side, the Prince of Khartoum does not keep any records at all and there are no Viziers.
* **Sheriff:** Most kingdoms employ a Sheriff, who is someone entrusted to keep the Traditions and enforce the Law. In larger, more media-savvy cities like Houston, the Sheriff will have several Viziers assigned to help them. In many ways a Sheriff is like a Hakim that answers to the Princeps rather than a Circle member.
* **Kindred:** A monster that has been formally welcomed into the Makhzen "family". Kindred are expected to obey their superiors and honor them with tribute (10% is considered acceptable) but also receive hospitality and protection.
* **Childe:** A newly created monster is considered to be the Childe of the Kindred that created them or sponsors them for membership in the Makhzen. They are effectively considered to be extensions of that Kindred until formally released and/or recognized in the court of the Prince. Spawn monsters are not normally granted such recognition and remain the Childer of their creator or become the Khadim of another Kindred.
* **Khadim:** A "Servant" of a Kindred. Offenses, including insults, against Khadim are punished as an assault on the property of the Kindred that "own" or sponsor them, meaning that the Khadim have a degree of official protection but are otherwise accorded little respect or status

#### Makhzen Status

1. Associate: Khadim or Childe
2. Member: Kindred
3. Established: Sheriffs and minor Viziers
4. Powerful: Mehtar on weak Councils, Manadi, and major Viziers
5. Local Leader: Princes, Mehtar on powerful Councils, and Hakim
6. Senior Leader: Members of the Inner Circle
