## The Covenant
_"A bishop of the Covenant can believe anything, but most of us don't."_

**Probably Established:** 5th century CE, Rome.

The effect of the Roman Catholic Church on human history is hard to over estimate. As Rome itself was coming crashing down, Europe was largely cut off from the Middle East, Africa, and points further in Asia. Europe became isolated, and the influence of the Makhzen all but vanished. It was at this time that the supernatural creatures of the European region created a new organization modeled on the fledgling Roman Catholic Church.

The Covenant has extremely confused theology and you are specifically not allowed to be excommunicated for heresy. After all, the Covenant's primary role is to facilitate social interaction and conflict resolution between members rather than to advance any specific theological agenda. The Covenant is led by an Anti-Pope who wears a mask and whose identity is nominally secret. The Anti-Pope leads the council of Cardinals, from whom he or she is nominated, and does so for an unspecified amount of time before being replaced - occasionally by themselves in a different mask. Below the cardinals are bishops, below bishops are priests, and everyone else is referred to as "Flock". Other organizations refer to Covenant members derisively as "Sheep".

Law in the Covenant is confusing and pre-baroque, grounded in Roman law and medieval superstition. It is doctrine in the Covenant that canon law is infallible, and thus no law is ever replaced or contradicted. The immense amount of doublethink required to make this function at all is produced by Glossators, who philosophize the inordinately convoluted structures whereby contradictory statements can be rationalized as merely _seeming_ to contradict each other. Canon law itself is crafted by a group of bishops called the Heresiarchs who draft documents for potential Anti-Papal blessing. Who sits on the Heresiarch council at any time is highly variable, as a seat becomes vacant whenever a Heresiarch misses two meetings in a row, and an empty seat is filled as soon as seven bishops not on the council,  three bishops on the council, or the Anti-Pope nominate one of the other Bishops into the seat.

The Covenant maintains a number of parallel hierarchies in addition to the primary one. Rather than being a bishop or priest (which is regional), one could be Apostolic Exarch (which governs a region that is not under Covenant Control), a Military Ordinal (which handles defense of the order regardless of location), or a Palatine (which is organizational and has personnel but no fixed territory). All of these titles carry approximately the same weight as Bishop. The Covenant also recognizes some of its members as "saints". Once a Covenant member has descended into sainthood they carry a status that _cannot be taken away_, which essentially allows them to speak and be listened to on any issue by any church conclave at any organizational level. Since the membership of the Covenant are supernatural in nature, the requirements of miraculous activities is entirely a formality and being recognized by the Anti-Pope as a Saint is entirely political. Saints are given spiffy blood red uniforms when they serve in any official capacity and are thence known as Sanguines regardless of their rank or duties. World wide there are about a hundred bishops or bishop equivalents, and the substantial majority are in Europe.

### Power and Office in the Covenant
_You think you're bigger than God? Let me tell you, **I** am bigger than God._

The Covenant is an Ecclesiastical organization, and despite the fact that a majority of its members (and even leaders) do not believe in the theology on which they were founded, their structure has remained mostly constant. More so than the human church upon which they were originally based. The Covenant hierarchy is pretty rigid even if their apologetics are not. Promotion is always from above with the singular exception that the anti-pope is promoted from within by a democratic quorum of the Heresiarchs. The organization's concept of "above" is slightly counterintuitive, as it is divided into orders whose offices are parallel in rank and function.

* **The Anti-Pope:** The head of the Heresiarch's Council, the Anti-Pope is the first sentence and the final answer. Currently the Anti-Pope rules from the shadow city under Rome, but there is _strong_ current of opinion that it should move to Ciudad de Mexico as that city has more than 8 times as many actual Covenant members in it and basically determines the Covenant's overall direction in a very real way.
* **Bishop:** The ruler of each Covenant City is the Bishop. Bishops can run their cities pretty much however they want, and appoint (or approve) all of the Priests in their territory.
* **Cardinal:** Some Covenant cities have a Cardinal instead of a bishop (or in weird cases, mostly in Italy, _in addition_ to the Bishop). The Cardinal is a Bishop (or Bishop equivalent such as Prelate or Palatine) and also has more authority in the running of the Covenant globally. They are the Heresiarchs and when the Anti-Pope dies or resigns they meet to elect a new one. Most anti-papal decrees are actually drafted by the Heresiarchs (either singularly or in groups) and then approved by the Anti-Pope.
* **Apostolic Exarch:** An Apostolic Exarch is given the same respect due to a Bishop, but they do not control a city. They are given supervision of a region that the Covenant _do not control_. In ages past, an Apostolic Exarch was appointed "over" a hostile region with the understanding that if they could attract enough Covenant members to crusade against it to conquer it and make it a Covenant territory that they would automatically become the Bishop of that land. Tonight that practice has been officially abandoned by Covenant leadership, and an Apostolic Exarch is essentially an ambassador to another Syndicate. They speak for the interests of Covenant flock persisting or working in territories acknowledged as belonging to another Syndicate.
* **Military Ordinal:** The Crusading Army of the Covenant has at times consisted of most of the Covenant's flock. The Anti-Pope divides the Crusading Army into military orders, and the leader of each order is essentially a Bishop. Anyone can ask for acceptance into any military order at any time, and if accepted they essentially answer to the Military Ordinal of it _instead_ of the Bishop of whatever parish they happen to be in.
* **Prelate:** The Covenant has a number of contemplative orders, each headed by a Prelate. These Prelates are roughly equivalent to a Bishop, save that they are in charge of an order rather than a region. Like with military orders, a member of the Covenant can apply to join a contemplative order, and if accepted, is considered to be "in" the order _instead_ of the city they happen to persist in.
* **Palatine:** A Palatine is an arbiter of Covenant Law. It is their responsibility to make decisions based upon the sum total of Anti-Papal decrees, to resolve differences between flock members and inflict punishments on those who have been accused by Bishops. Palatinate Courts move around a lot. Even the largest Covenant City (Ciudad de Mexico) only has about 5000 in its Flock and there aren't cases demanding their attention all of the time.
* **Priest:** The Covenant requires each member of the Flock to check in with a member of the Church authority at least once a week. This ritual of intrusive government is handled by a Priest. Many Bishops have several Priests working under them. Each Priest will be assigned some members of the Flock to keep an eye on so they can deliver weekly reports on interesting developments to the Bishop. But a Priest isn't _just_ a member of the secret police, they also serve a leadership and administrative function.
* **Monk:** A Monk is roughly equivalent to a Priest in rank, but is a member of a military or contemplative order and is expected to act as a military coordinator for their personal flock (who need not be geographically located), or as a coordinator of whatever the contemplative order does (again, possibly in a non-geographical manner). Some orders bestow the rank of Monk on every member who joins after a period of apprenticeship.
* **Deacon:** A general term for a number of offices that, like Monk, are formally of less rank than a Priest but in effect often equivalent to them. Deacons tend to be enforcers, administrators, or diplomats working directly for Bishops or the equivalent.
* **Glossator:** A Glossator is similar to a lawyer. They assist Palatines with the making of legal decisions by crafting arguments (called "Glosses") that indicate how a situation could be reconciled with all previous Anti-Papal edicts such that none of the edicts contradict each other. Some of the logic is quite as tortured as those found guilty of breaking the edicts. Glossators follow adversarial principals in law, and an accused brought before a Palatine is permitted a Glossator to argue on their behalf.
* **Flock:** The remainder of the Covenant are the Flock. Formally this means that they have undergone a baptism, which involves a good deal more literal blood than the Christian version. The Flock are expected to make tithes and regular "confessions" to a Priest but are also entitled to sanctuary and charity.
* **Catechumen:** Candidates for the Covenant are called Catechumen. They are normally presented to (preferably) the local Bishop or at least to a Priest for instruction for a time before their baptism by their creator or sponsor.
* **Oblate:** Anyone associated with the Covenant but not a candidate for baptism is regarded as an Oblate. They have a degree of formal protection under Covenant law but no other rights.

#### Covenant Status

1. Associate: Catechumen or Oblate
2. Member: Baptized Flock
3. Established: Priest, Monk, Glossator, or Deacon
4. Powerful: A Palatine or Minor Ordinal/Exarch
5. Local Leader: Bishop or Major Ordinal/Exarch
6. Senior Leader: The Anti-Pope and Heresiarch Council
